feat: add commands page (#844)
nuxt/nuxtjs.org: content/en/guides/get-started/commands.md

---
title: Commands and Deployment
description: Nuxt.js comes with a set of useful commands, both for development and production purpose.
position: 4
category: get-started
csb_link: https://codesandbox.io/embed/github/nuxt-academy/guides-examples/tree/master/01_get_started/02_routing?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark
---

Nuxt.js comes with a set of useful commands, both for development and production purpose.

## Using in package.json

You should put these commands in the `package.json`:

```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "nuxt",
  "build": "nuxt build",
  "start": "nuxt start",
  "generate": "nuxt generate"
}
```

> Then, you can launch your commands via `yarn <command>` (example: `yarn dev`).

Reviewer: Could be nice to also add `npm run <command>`  like we do in the installation page.

## Development Environment

> To launch Nuxt in development mode with hot reloading:

Reviewer: `hot reloading`  -> `hot module replacement`

<code-group>

>   <code-block label="npx" active>

Reviewer 2: Do we (or "should we") advice using `npx` instead of npm/yarn?

```bash

> nuxt

Reviewer: `nuxt` -> `npx nuxt`

Author: should we remove the npx block and just show yarn and npm like rest of docs?

```

  </code-block>

  <code-block label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn dev
```

  </code-block>

  <code-block label="NPM">

```bash
npm run dev
```

  </code-block>
</code-group>

## List of Commands

> You can run different commands depending on the [target](/guides/features/deployment-targets) :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run different commands depending on the [target](/guides/features/deployment-targets):
```

### target: `server` (default value)

> - **nuxt dev** - Launch a development server on localhost:3000 with hot-reloading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **nuxt dev** - Launch a development server on `http://localhost:3000` with hot-reloading.
```

> - **nuxt build** - Build your application with webpack and minify the JS & CSS (for production).

Reviewer 2: I'd keep it a bit more concise here.

```suggestion
- **nuxt build** - Build and optimize your application with webpack for production.
```

- **nuxt start** - Start the production server (after running `nuxt build`). Use it for Node.js hosting like Heroku, Digital Ocean, etc.

### target: `static`

> - **nuxt dev** - Launch a development server on localhost:3000 with hot-reloading.

Reviewer 2: Should we somehow hint that there is no difference for `nuxt dev` no matter which target we choose?

```suggestion
- **nuxt dev** - Launch a development server on `http://localhost:3000` with hot-reloading.
```

> - **nuxt generate** - Build the application (if needed), generate every route as a HTML file and statically export to `/dist` (used for static hosting).

Reviewer 2: Reduced parantheses and phrased it a bit clearer.

```suggestion
- **nuxt generate** - Build the application if needed and create HTML files for every route inside the `/dist` folder which is used for static hosting.
```

> - **nuxt start** - serve the dist/ directory like your static hosting would do (Netlify, Vercel, Surge, etc), great for testing before deploying.

Reviewer 2: Consistent capitalization as well as code block usage.

```suggestion
- **nuxt start** - Serve the `/dist` directory like your static hosting would do (Netlify, Vercel, Surge, etc) which is great for local testing.
```

## Production Deployment

> Nuxt.js lets you choose between three modes to deploy your application: SSR, Static Generated, or SPA.

Reviewer 3: Mode is deprecated. Also SPA should not mentioned here. It can be with either "Server" or "Static" deployments

> ### Server-Side Rendered Deployment (Universal SSR)

Reviewer 3: It can be simply "Server Deployment"

Both SSR and SPA are possible with static deployment too!

> ### Server-Side Rendered Deployment (Universal SSR)

Reviewer 2: "Universal SSR" seems redundant. As `server-side applications` are often called `universal applications`.

See naming suggestions above.

To deploy a SSR application we use `target: server`, where server is the default value.

<code-group>
  <code-block label="npx" active>

```bash
nuxt build
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn build
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="NPM">

```bash
npm run build
```

  </code-block>
</code-group>

> Once you application is built you can use the `start` command to see a production version of your application

Reviewer 3: ~> to run your application in production mode

Maybe also adding a tip to use `PORT=4000 nuxt start` when using pwa module?

Reviewer: For this, could the PWA module force the 4000 port with nuxt start @pi0 ?

Reviewer 2: Or make the nuxt start port 4000 by default (when running it with target:static)?

Reviewer 3: Both forcing methods are breaking changes since we don't know `nuxt start` is meant for serving in a real production environment or quickly locally testing. Using different port with static target makes sense since `nuxt start` is only meant for locally testing. That's why i suggested to mention this tip for static section (we can also do change in nuxt core)

<code-group>
  <code-block label="npx" active>

```bash
nuxt start
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn start
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="NPM">

```bash
npm run start
```

  </code-block>
</code-group>

<base-alert type="info">

> we recommend putting `.nuxt` in `.npmignore` or `.gitignore`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend putting `.nuxt` in `.npmignore` or `.gitignore`.
```

</base-alert>

> ### Static Generated Deployment (Pre-rendered)

Reviewer 2: Either `Deploying Static Sites` or `Static Deployment`. Would probably prefer the former.

```suggestion
### Deploying Static Sites Deployment (Pre-rendered)
```

```bash
nuxt generate
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn generate
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="NPM">

```bash
npm run generate
```

  </code-block>
</code-group>

Nuxt.js will create a `dist` folder with everything inside ready to be deployed on a static hosting service.

#### **Fail on Error**

To return a non-zero status code when a page error is encountered and let the CI/CD fail the deployment or build, you can use the `--fail-on-error` argument.

<code-group>
<code-block label="npx" active>

```bash
nuxt generate --fail-on-error
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn generate --fail-on-error
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="NPM">

```bash
npm run generate --fail-on-error
```

  </code-block>

</code-group>

As of Nuxt v2.13 there is a crawler installed that will now crawl your link tags and generate your routes when using the command `nuxt generate` based on those links.

<base-alert>

**Warning:** dynamic routes are ignored by the `generate` command when using Nuxt <= v2.12: [API Configuration generate](/api/configuration-generate#routes)

</base-alert>

<base-alert type="info">

> When generating your web application with `nuxt generate`, [the context](/guides/internals-glossary/context) given to [asyncData](/guide/async-data) and [fetch](/guide/vuex-store#the-fetch-method) will not have `req` and `res`.

Reviewer 2: Info that they are also cached (full static mode)?

</base-alert>

> ### Single Page Application Deployment (SPA)

Reviewer 3: I think this section should be avoided. Nuxt.js apps are **ALWAYS** SPA. Regardless of `server` and `target` options.

Reviewer: Fully agree, SPA wording should be removed out of the documentation as much as possible since it brings confusion.

> When ssr is set to false in our `nuxt.config.js` file (`ssr: false`) and we run the `build`/`generate` command, Nuxt will generate our dist folder with all generated routes. These html files common meta and resource links, but not page content. The content is generated in the browser, on the client side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When `ssr` is set to `false` in our `nuxt.config.js` file (`ssr: false`) and we run the `build`/`generate` command, Nuxt will generate our dist folder with all generated routes. These HTML files common meta and resource links, but not page content. The content is generated in the browser, on the client side.
```

> That means, we can't use SPA'S for applications where content depends on user authentication or a real time API (at least for the first load).

Reviewer 2: This seems counter-intuitive. What would be the problem with content behind authentication or real-time APIs for SPAs?

#### **For Static Hosting**

```js{}[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  target: 'static'
  ssr: false
}
```

<code-group>
  <code-block label="npx" active>

```bash
nuxt generate
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn generate
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="NPM">

```bash
npm run generate
```

  </code-block>
</code-group>

> Deploy the created `dist/` folder to your static hosting like Surge, GitHub Pages or nginx.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't leave NGINX here without explanation as it's a reverse proxy / web server and can be used for hosting both, static sites and dynamic SSR.

#### **For Server Hosting**

```js{}[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  ssr: false
}
```

<code-group>
  <code-block label="npx" active>

```bash
nuxt build
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="Yarn">

```bash
yarn build
```

  </code-block>
  <code-block label="NPM">

```bash
npm run build
```

  </code-block>
</code-group>

> Deploy the created `dist/` folder to your Node.js hosting like Heroku, Digital Ocean.

Author: no idea. never ran an spa on a node.js server

> ### Nuxt as a Middleware

Reviewer 3: Is it necessary to mention it here in command section? Using nuxt as middleware is only recommended for advanced cases not for how to get started

> Another possible deployment method is to use Nuxt as a middleware in frameworks while `ssr` is `false`. This helps reduce server load and uses Nuxt in projects where SSR is not possible.

Reviewer 2: Could you elaborate? I'm not sure where this paragraph is aiming at.

Author: removed

## What's next?

<base-alert type="next">

Read our [FAQ](/faq) to find examples for deployments to popular hosts.

</base-alert>

<base-alert type="next">

> Read our [Going Full Static](/blog/going-full-static) blog post.

Reviewer 3: I think it would be more appropriate if moving these to a page that guides about choosing right `target` and `ssr` values. After choosing what one needs, they can be referred to commands page
